
The literature and concepts provided in this chapter have served as a guide for the researchers of this study. It provided a basis for the conceptualization of the methodology. After a comprehensive review and synthesis of the different literature and concepts, these studies gave an overview on the merits and limitations of various methods, preprocessing techniques, and architectures.

The numerous studies referenced in Table 2.6.1, different approaches were found that helped formulate a new approach to detecting cerebral microbleeds. The techniques of Dou et al. (2015), Ferlin et al. (2023), and Li et al. (2022) provided knowledge on candidate detection through Region of Interest, false positive reduction, and metrics evaluation that supports the the strategies for accurate microbleed detection. One of the effective preprocessing methods that also reduces false positives is proven by Vrooman et al. (2012) through skull-stripping. Yen et al. (2023) demonstrated the segmentation accuracy improvement through Felzenszwalb's algorithm that correlates the idea on integrating local regions to improve medical image segmentation. Jun et al. (2023) focused on utilizing segmentation in medical imaging, examining the impact of local and global information on the performance of different tasks and linking both of these contexts. These studies gave an overview on different ways to improve medical image segmentation. On the other hand Chesbro et al. (2021) utilized T2*-weighted MRI because of how the Region Proposal Network is related to localization concepts. Lee et al. (2022) introduced the TPE-Det model, which utilizes three planes to detect microbleeds. However, it also highlights the limitations when the data is from one plane only. With this limitation, the model's architecture focuses on only one plane. The review of Alaskar et al. (2022) presented that object localization has difficulties on a limited dataset along with the color and intensity of the image. It is also proven that applying anatomical localization on Gradient Recalled Echo and Susceptibility weighted imaging increases accuracy in detecting microbleeds (Chesebro et al., 2021). 

To summarize, this section provides the synthesis of the studies that will be used in this research. The methods, results, and limitations provides an overview on the detection of microbleeds in MRI images. It also demonstrated on different ways to automatically detect microbleeds and how to classify mimics from actual microbleeds, preprocessing, metric evaluation as a basis for the study. 