An analysis of Cerebral Microbleeds detection system conducted by Ferlin et al. (2021). They used a High in-plane resolution dataset and a Low in-plane resolution dataset with the in-pane resolutions of 0.5 × 0.5 mm${}^2$ and 0.8 × 0.8 mm${}^2$ respectively. The proposed model was also tested on a different dataset with a similar in-pane resolution of 0.45 × 0.45 mm${}^2$. Their extensive analysis and experiments were conducted to propose a way of synthesis the suitable DNN-based system for reliable CMB detection, which shows high performance and generalization ability (Ferlin et al., 2021).  The data was pre-processed through image resizing to 512 × 512 and 288 × 288 for the Low in-pane resolution data, however the aspect ratio is not modified. This could lead to increase false information on the MRI data since resizing images could lead to fuzzy or pixelated. It could also lead to artifacts since most existing methods for image resizing are unsupervised. These may either fail to protect the interesting regions or cause distortion of the image structure (Wang & Yuan, 2014). The data was also standardized and Normalized through the reduction of the value of a single pixel. To distinguish Microbleeds from their mimics, the Ferlin et al. (2021) took advantage of the 3 DNN input channels that each channel was used as a separate input. Since MRI is a one channel image, each channel can process one image. 

>[!Note]- Itatanong ko pa ito kay sir regarding sa statement ko na ito
>Despite of the performance efficiency of processing multiple images in every channel. (Liang, 2020) stated that each channel of the weight matrix is convolved only with the corresponding channel of the input feature map. Since all three channels are independent, each channel has the possibility to perform differently from each other if the exact same data was processed in all three channels.

The model also analyzes the sequence of adjacent slices where the cerebral microbleed can be traced and verified based on the slices in the detected candidate location. The images were also randomly flipped and rotated between 0$^{\circ}$ and 90$^{\circ}$. Ferlin et al. (2021) also considered in modifying the original labels in the dataset, they also generated their own dataset which is consulted with a Machine Learning expert and a radiologist. The model used is Faster R-CNN structure and ResNet50 architecture as a feature extraction backbone. These two-stage detectors are computationally expensive, however they are one of the most effective models in detecting small objects. Despite of the performance on specific dataset, the training of Faster R-CNN depends on the parameters given by ResNet50 feature extraction. Through transferred learning, they have adopted the network weights from ResNet-50-FPN that is pretrained on the COCO dataset to facilitate the accelerated learning. Post processing includes the verification of ground truth and the verification of false positives. Through Intersection over Union of 40% that calculates if the predicted box has 40% in common with the ground truth. It is also checked along with the method of checking the adjacent slices. The checking of the adjacent slices are proven to improve the reduction of false positives since it traces the connection between slices of the present microbleed. However this method can be further improved through giving awareness the surrounding information in each adjacent slice. The proposed model 2D Faster RCNN achieved 92.62% Sensitivity, 89.74% of Precision, 90.84% of the F1 Score, and 0.24 of False Positive Average. 



Ferlin, M. A., Grochowski, M., Kwasigroch, A., Mikołajczyk, A., Szurowska, E., Grzywińska, M., & Sabisz, A. (2021). A comprehensive analysis of deep neural-based cerebral microbleeds detection system. _Electronics_, _10_(18), 2208. https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10182208

Wang, Q., & Yuan, Y. (2014). Learning to resize image. _Neurocomputing_, _131_, 357–367. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2013.10.007

Liang, X. (2020). Chapter 1—Theoretical basis. In X. Liang (Ed.), _Ascend AI Processor Architecture and Programming_ (pp. 1–40). Elsevier. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-823488-4.00001-1

- Dito ko siya na basa since may bayad yung book. https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/rgb-image