Ferlin, M., Klawikowska, Z., Grochowski, M., Grzywińska, M., & Szurowska, E. (2023). Exploring the landscape of automatic cerebral 
	microbleed detection: A comprehensive review of algorithms, current trends, and future challenges. _Expert Systems with Applications_, _232_, 120655. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2023.120655

### Pre processing 

**Bias Field Correction**
- is the operation that reduces negative influence of the bias field, which is an undesired artifact in most MRI images, especially old ones. 
- It can also be called intensity inhomogeneity correction. 
**Skull stripping**
- to obtain binary masks of the brain tissue from MR magnitude images and applied them to SWI and phase images.
- is an operation of removing the skull and background from the image, leaving only the brain.
**Normalization**
- is a typical operation of rescaling the pixel values into range (0, 1) or (−1, 1). This enables bias reduction in the next stages of system synthesis.
**Standardization**
- is an equally common operation as normalization and involves subtraction of mean value of pixels and division by the standard deviation of them
**Padding**
- is an artificial size change by the addition of a black frame to obtain a desired image size without applying resize
**Image cut** 
- is a common operation performed to simplify the de- tection task. It involves image partitioning into smaller components and feeding them into the classifier. It might be performed using the sliding neighborhood processing (SNP) technique to produce smaller fragments of the original image.
**Inversion**
- s the operation that consists of swapping intensity values in relation to the center of the intensity interval 
- Selective tissue supression possible 
- Twice the sensitivity to T1 Images
- Added contrast to T1 and T2 Images 

### Approaches in training the models 
- In the domain of CMB detection, various approaches were used, such as artificial neural network which consist of a sum of inputs multiplied by weights assigned in the training process,
- back-propagation neural networks (BPNNs) that is ANNs extension with the information about the error,
- sparse auto-encoder (SAE) which is a neural network consisting of an encoder and decoder with the additional sparsity penalty algorithm
- Occasionally, the detection task was replaced by classifying small fragments of an image using either CNN or ResNet50
- **CNN**
	- consists of a number of feed-forward convolutional layers, where the features are extracted by performing a convolution between input data and convolutional filters.
	- Consecutive convolution layers are interspersed by pooling layers that extract the most important features.
- An interesting approach is a replacement of a fully-connected layer by Extreme Learning Machine (Huang et al., 2006), which is much more efficient 
- In the context of pre-trained general-purpose neural networks, various commonly-known architectures have been utilized, including AlexNet, ResNet50, Faster-RCNN, VGG, U-Net, YOLOv2, DenseNet 201 or SSD with the modification of feature enhancement.

### Candidate Verification 
- To mitigate the issue of false positives 
- Manual Radiologist verification 
	- BOMBS 
	- MARS 
- most research identified a batch of predefined CMB features, such as intensity and size, or complex parameters of a single voxel, calculated in 2D or 3D spaces. Then, the features of CMBs together with the previously prepared fragments of images were passed to the classifier. A lot of classifiers were tested, including Support Vector Machine (SVM), linear criterion classifier (LDC), quadratic discriminant classifier (QDC) and Random Forrest Classifier (RFC)
	- **SVM**
		- a supervised machine learning algorithm that classifies data by finding an optimal line or hyperplane that maximizes the distance between each class in an N-dimensional space
	- **QDC**
		- A classifier with a quadratic decision boundary, generated by fitting class conditional densities to the data and using Bayes' rule.
	- **RFC**
		- multiple decision trees are created using different random subsets of the data and features. Each decision tree is like an expert, providing its opinion on how to classify the data.
- Moreover, there were also other methods to define CMB features to eliminate false positives, for instance, 2D CNN, 3D ISA (Independent Subspace Analysis) network, 3D Radon Transform or feed-forward feature selection (FFFS). In some cases, thresholds of geometric features were set, and on this ground, the classification was performed.
	- **2D CNN**
	- **3D ISA (Independent Subspace Analysis) network**
		-  that deals with multi-dimensional independent sources, is a generalization of independent component analysis
		- However, all known ISA algorithms may become ineffective when the sources possess temporal structure.
	- **3D Radon Transform**
		- in which shape, size and intensity are combined is used as the preferred domain for feature extraction. Radon can effectively transform 3D dimensional image by accumulating the intensity along a plane oriented for a given set of angles.  
		- (PDF) Automatic Detection of Cerebral Microbleed in SWI Using Radon Transform_. 
	- **Feed-forward feature selection**
		- can obtain an expected feature subset with less iteration.
	
- Another strategy at this stage was to use a previously generated **CSF mask** to distinguish a real CMB from vessels, and a WM mask to include the information about the location of potential microbleed
	- The remaining false positives were generated after thresholding the FRST maps with lower thresholds. If the vessel mask had not been used, the number of false positives would have been 6 times as large.
- In addition, there was an algorithm used to investigate the overlap between predictions from **adjacent** slices. It enabled not only the removal of false-positive predictions that were in fact a ground truth, although labeled in the adjacent slice but also helped find a real CMB that was detected in the adjacent slice in spite of the previous false-negative prediction
	- As a result, we achieved high levels of both sensitivity and precision metrics, confirmed by a high F1 score and a low number of false positives. As proven, compared to other such systems, ours performs very well. Joint analysis of reported metrics is important and allows for proper evaluation of the system and its comparison to other ones. It should be emphasised that this would not have been possible without the close cooperation of machine learning and radiologists.